- [Instructor] The publish-subscribe
asynchronous messaging style is a little bit unique
and its use cases are very much in the same boat.
But when you need them, the power is evident.
The use cases are very specific
and much of them deal with real issues
in distributed computing.
The multiple responders use case is one such,
especially in distributed computing.
Oftentimes, we see cases when the flow of traffic
between sites is limited on purpose
to enforce good constraints across the data centers.
We often allow data to stay in sync between sites,
but what happens when you need more than data in sync?
For instance, you may allow your databases
to stay in sync across data centers,
but other triggered actions are data center independent.
In a pub/sub model, you can federate the message broker
across multiple data centers and allow triggered actions
within each data center to occur in isolation.
Those triggered actions are often admin tasks
like triggers to clean up or update search indices.
In this model, the central hub can publish a message
and a worker in each data center
can subscribe to the message.
The beauty of this model is that
when a new data center comes online,
there is no code changes needed as you would see
in a direct push through asynchronous process
as your new data center just creates a new consumer
and subscribes to the channel to get the messages
that every other data center gets.
Another use case, and one that I used a lot
with a GDPR implementation, is when multiple tasks
must fire across disparate systems.
In my GDPR case,
each unique business unit operated independently,
but the department I worked for was the hub for everyone.
We took on GDPR for the company.
I designed the heart of the rights of GDPR
around the pub/sub model.
When a consumer requested a copy of his or her data
or asked to be forgotten,
we would publish a message to the message broker.
Each department would then listen for those messages
and perform their own series of actions
to handle the consumer's request.
When they were done,
they would put a point-to-point message on a queue
and we would then wait until everyone else responded
before moving on to the next step.
This pub/sub model allowed the company to be compliant
early on with a smaller subset of departments
and then roll new departments online
as soon as we were ready, again with no code changes
in the pub/sub side.
We did nothing different.
We continued putting the messages on the queue.
There were considerations we had to account for,
and we will talk about them in a bit.
Pub/sub models also allow for consumer choice.
The consumers can decide if they want
to listen to messages or not.
You don't have to call their APIs
and have them act a message and ignore it.
They simply don't have to subscribe.
Some tools make this even better with fanouts,
where they can listen for messages
that match a specific criteria,
but won't receive anything that doesn't.
The fanout is a little bit outside this course,
but it works in a similar model to pub/sub.
Again, the key here is you can create messages
that everyone, or no one, will listen to
without any code changes.
If there are more consumers, they just subscribe.
I want to talk about durable subscriptions here a bit.
There are cases when your consumer must get the message
in a pub/sub model even if they're offline
at the moment the message is produced.
This is a key benefit of using durable subscribers.
There is a guarantee that they will get the message.
The message broker will learn of the durable subscriber
and keep the message around
until that subscriber acknowledges it
without impacting other subscribers.
The message becomes targeted at that point
without impacting duplicated processes
of other subscribers that are online.
This orchestration becomes powerful
in mission-critical operations.
Back to my GDPR use case.
All of our consumers were durable subscribers on purpose.
We had a legal obligation to process the data,
but didn't want to block or retry
if the remote system was down for some reason.
By employing this model, we didn't block.
We just allowed the message broker
to handle the sending of these messages
when the consumer came back online.
There were other asynchronous processes that fit this bill.
And in my opinion, more often than not,
a subscriber should always be a durable one.
The beauty of this is that a subscriber can unregister,
which is important.
If the consumer no longer needs to consume the messages,
they must unregister to ensure the message broker
doesn't hang onto the messages that are no longer needed,
as opposed to just falling off.
Again, all of this is done
in the producer agnostic fashion.
The producer doesn't know anything about the consumers,
if done correctly.
They don't know if the consumer's durable or not,
they're completely decoupled.
This, of course, isn't the same for synchronous messaging
in a microservices architecture, or any, for that matter.
When your producer doesn't care,
the consumers can be durable or not
without impacting the source system.
So now let's take a quick look
at the publish-subscribe model.
Once again, we start our system with a message broker,
as it is the heart of our system as a whole.
We then create a producer.
It will be called synchronously in this example
by some external system.
The RESTful message will come in and start the process.
Now, the producer knows about the message broker
and how to communicate with it.
We then will have some downstream actions
that need to take place.
In this case, we have two different consumer processes
called subscribers that need to act on the message.
They can be durable or not.
Each of these subscribers also knows
about the message broker.
Each one subscribes to the messages
and starts the polling process.
The message broker knows that currently,
there are two subscribers for the message.
Now, the original service makes a call to the producer
and once again blocks waiting for a response.
The producer creates a message based on the contract
for the system and puts the message on the broker.
Once again, the producer can respond
to the original service with accepted.
Now the message will move to the message broker
and be put on the appropriate queue.
However, it will present the message
to all available subscribers.
The subscribers, during their own independent listen phase,
will receive the message in its original format, usually.
Each subscriber must act the message on its own
or the message broker will still hold the message
for the individual subscriber.
At this point, they can each do their own thing
and execute the actions needed
on the acceptance of the message.